Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
13 recorded live Thursday, May 15th, 2008.
Support for Hansel minutes as
provided by. Tellerik already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by Dodman
developer's journal. The world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Owen Rogers, one of the
original authors of cruise control.net
about extending continuous integration with
continuous miles. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'm sitting here with
Owen Rogers of the small
energy group, formerly of thought
works. And one of the
founders of cruise control.net, and
I've done a couple of
shows before on continuous integration,
but the opportunity to sit
down with one of the
founding members of the cruise
control.net project was too great
to pass up. So I
appreciate you sitting down with
me today. Thanks Scott. So
you had said that there's
some, there's some history going
on about the cruise control.net
project and it was a
more difficult to actually get
out into the world and
maybe a lot of us
realize, Yeah, so I started
with cruise control.net back in
2002. So right at the
time when I joined ThoughtWorks,
ThoughtWorks was embarking on building
a relationship with Microsoft and
they wanted to demonstrate what
some of these tools were
that they were working on
in the, the Java open
source space for Microsoft. So
it was quite serendipitous for
me. I came into ThoughtWorks
with a bit of a.net
experience, and I was involved
in leading a team of
four other developers in Calgary,
working on the initial release
of cruise control.net. So what
we did was get cruise
control.net up to a level
where it was sufficient to
be demonstrated to Microsoft. And
then, and then we took
it from there. Once we
achieved that goal, then there
was a bit of a
dilemma for ThoughtWorks to deal
with, which is what do
we do? What do we
do with this, with this
product? Do we take it,
do we open source it?
Do we turn it into
something that is potentially salable?
And so there was quite
a bit of debate internally
about whether to take it
and release it as open
source or not. So how
does your project get spun
up though, without an expectation
of how it's going to
actually leave the mothership? Well,
it achieved the objective, which
was to credentialize ThoughtWorks within
Microsoft and demonstrate what the
value was associated. Some of
these things that we are
quite excited about within the
Java space, the question was
then how do we best
capitalize on this investment? Because
it had been built up
on ThoughtWorks time. So there
was myself and the other
individuals that were involved were
not assigned to a project,
hence not billing out, not
deriving revenue directly for ThoughtWorks
over that period of time.
So ThoughtWorks was debating how,
how to best take advantage
of this. And so thinking
that okay, being in the
Microsoft space was different than
being in the Java space.
People typically sold products within
the Microsoft space. Should we
follow suit and in turn,
try and sell cruise control.net
or leverage it to our
strategic advantage for new dotnet
engagements. We could go in
and we could say, okay,
we have this tool that
we're able to get up
and running for you very
quickly. And it provides these
benefits, et cetera. Fortunately, as
I said before, the clear
heads prevailed and the decision
was made to open source
the product. And this is,
This has been a product
for me. This was kind
of like the first product
that I use short of
Nant, which I was using
to dry. I was driving
that with cruise control that
really got me into this
whole, what I would, what
I think of as the
alternative.net space. It's the, the
thing that holds it all
together. But I remember trying
to sell it to my
bosses, you know, sell it,
trying to say, sell an
air quotes, telling my bosses
that we should use cruise
control. A lot of them
were saying, well, why you
should just use a batch
file and just schedule it.
Why would I want to
use cruise control.net or, or
any kind of continuous integration
server and not just a
PowerShell script or a batch
file on a schedule? Well,
it's very much been the
kind of thin edge of
the wedge as far as
agile adoption is concerned or
my experience so often. So
I work pregnant predominantly as
an agile coach, actually, very
little of what I do
deals with cruise control.net itself
more often than not. If
it's used at all. My
experience with cruise control.net is
used to help when an
engagement with a client that
is looking to get their
automated integration environment set up
and running, and then things
very much proceed from there
because generally you can go
in and you can set
up cruise control.net relatively quickly.
And then it's like, okay,
now what's your biggest problem.
So it's, it's nice because
it's relatively uncontroversial. Everybody can
look at it and say,
daily builds are a good
idea. What happens if we
make them more frequent? Well,
that's gotta be twice as
good or many times. It's
good. So it's a very
easy way to enter into
an engagement with, with clients.
ThoughtWorks didn't necessarily recognize it
as such the ThoughtWorks, despite
its rep public reputation as
being a company that promotes
open source products has got
a fairly, fairly skin scanty
reputation of harvesting open source
projects internally. Instead it leverages
it to its it's, it's
somewhat controversial internally. Well, it's
a business, right? I mean,
ultimately they're trying to make
the money and pay the
rent at some point. You're
exactly right. Which is that
there was never really a
clear business model for ThoughtWorks
about how do we derive
revenue directly from the open
source assets that the company
had acquired or built up.
So, and so the, the
link was always accepted as
being somewhat tenuous and plus
with open source being open
source, there was generally the
willingness of suckers like myself
to invest a lot of
time outside of work, regular
work hours, billable hours in
order to build up and
enhance this product. That sounds
like a lot of people
put a lot of work
into it. I mean, there's
a great deal of effort
and heart and soul poured
into cruise control that night.
So I don't know if
you know about Olo, it's
a, it's an open source
repository, a repository of metadata
about different Oakland source projects.
It's pronounced. Although I don't
know how it's pronounced. I
was assumed it was pronounced,
although M O L O
H I think. Yeah. Oh,
L O O O L
O H There's only one
only one L O L
O H God, I think
anyway, Certainly put that up
on the, on the show
side, but yeah, it's a,
it's a spider that looks
at an opensource project looks
at check-ins looks at your
repository and says, if these
many people worked on it
in this many hours and
this many lines of code,
this project is worth X
number of dollars. It provides
some pretty interesting and creative
statistics about a project activity.
So I believe, and this
is off the top of
my head that the report
from Olo says the cruise
control.net equates to 62 man
years worth of effort. So
it's pretty substantial. I don't
know exactly how they derive
that information. I believe that
it's related to the number
of committers over the course
of the lifetime of the
project, but it's certainly not
insignificant. I mean, at this
point in time, cruise control.net
is the de facto automated
integration server for the.net platform.
It's had over 80,000 downloads.
So it it's used in
thousands of teams globally. So
it is, it's definitely achieved
its share of success. So
I still have to push
the original question. It's better
than batch files, why Or
the batch files, why it's
better than batch files because
in, so people often talk
about an automated integration server
as being well, it's nothing
other than a while loop.
Right. So true. Why do
you feel Exactly? Why do
you need a tool around
it and admittedly, while that's
true, there's a lot more
that it does for you.
One is it does provide
integration with a large number
of source control systems and
different build tools. It provides
a mechanism, not only for
it to just continuously pull
your repository. You can also
do things like schedule builds.
You can have many builds
running simultaneously. You can set
up queues so that you
can ensure that there is
some sort of exclusion between
builds. So if you've got
bills that both depend on
a common resource, or if
you want to throttle back
the number of builds that
are happening concurrently on a
machine, you've got that ability,
plus there's all the reporting
around it. And that's a
big part of it is
that if it's just a
batch file that's running in
isolation, then it's not really
providing feedback. And feedback is
the core is the essence
of an automated integration. Sorry.
Ah, okay. So the feedback
and the reporting and what
comes out of it and
what we do with that
information is more important than
the simple fact that the
build ran and we scheduled
it at a certain time.
Definitely. And actually I would
say that a product like
cruise control.net or cruise control
or any of the other
automated integration servers out there
are the value is secondary
relative to the associated feedback.
Often I go in and
I talked to a client
and they say, Oh yeah,
we're doing continuous integration. We've
got cruise control.net running. Meanwhile,
they haven't had a passing
build and weeks and their
prac they're, they're certainly not
practicing anything along the lines
of continuous integration. They're checking
in very infrequently. And so
for me, it's more about
the practice and the tool
enables the practice, but it's
important to separate the two
because you can certainly practice
continuous integration without having the
support of an automated integration
server. It just makes it
easier. That's why, I don't
know if you notice when
I'm talking about it, I
refer to cruise control.net as
being an automated integration server
rather than a continuous integration
server, because I think of
continuous integration as being what
people do. It's the practice.
And that is something that
is supported by having an
automated grid integration server in
place. That's a, that's a
subtle but very powerful distinction.
It's one thing to automate,
but to, to apply the,
the, the practices and, you
know, the, the, the appropriate
amount of respect to the
data that is coming out
and act on it and
improve your process. Certainly a
broken build does no one
any good. At my last
company, we built a, a
build server of build servers.
It was basically a super
dashboard by aggregating at the
end. I think we ended
up with 35 or 40
different cruise control build servers
because we had all these
different projects. And there wasn't
a sense of the health
of the organization while each
project knew what their health
was the organization needed to
do, because there was that
remoting interface and Incruse control
that I think was then
changed to be a more
version, independent interface. We made
a super dashboard where someone
could look and say, you
know, gosh, this whole section
of the building is looking
rather healthy, but you know,
there hasn't been a good
build and day's over on
these guys and the project
manager could then have a
dashboard. He didn't need to
see the check-ins. You didn't
need to see the details,
but he could get a
sense of the way he
segmented his organization and, and
the builds within the sub
orgs and then what their
health was that that's right.
Really cool to hear. I
mean, I re one of
the things that's really exciting
about this being an open
source project is going in,
going out and talking to
other people that are using
the tool. And I often
find and talk to people
like yourself that have been
using cruise control.net for far
more projects than I had
ever dreamed that people would
use the tool for. And
the sort of extensibility you're
talking about is exactly why
we built the web dashboard
with a restful API, because
we recognize that the sort
of interface that we would
provide to cruise control.net was
not sufficient in and of
itself. And the people would
naturally want some sort of
mechanism to, I found it
well, and I've seen more
and more projects that are
not just producing bin files
and DLLs rather than dropping
them in a bin folder,
but producing virtual machines as
the result of a build
such that the sales person
could stop by and pick
up that day's daily build,
which the build artifact is
a virtual machine and we've
taken the last job, cruise
control, even farther, such that
we also fire up those
virtual machines and run integration
tests on them. So the
build is one thing, the
test passes and other, we
also have things like code
coverage, Simeon for similarity analysis,
and then going out all
the way to firing up
a VM, starting a test
using like water or Watan
to automate the browser inside
of the VM, and then
saying, this is a good
bill, shutting it down, putting
it into a, a library
of virtual machines, all orchestrated
by, by cruise control. And
then also the thing that
I thought was the most
powerful was the idea of
what is failure became a
really, really important thing at
my last company. The idea
that we could say this
much coverage is, is minimal,
or this many tests, when
you check something in, there
must be a test. And
we started coming up with
all new, different ways to
fail the build that we're
more than just saying a
compiler error. Yeah. There are
many different factors that go
into assessing the health of
a build. I think that
that's a really interesting way
you're talking about in terms
of virtualization. I think that
that's definitely the next wave
that's coming for automated integration
support. I know that some
tool support is happening in
that, in that area, not
specifically with cruisecontrol.net, I'm assuming
that you at your company
would have had to do
quite a bit of custom
work in order to get
that up and going. But
I think in the future,
that's going to be much,
much easier for companies to
spin up a bunch of
virtual machines distribute their build
across a grid that will
run and test that build
that's been created in a
variety of different environment. Yeah,
it was fairly a Rube
Goldberg in, in its design,
but we had a, a
common interface for virtual server,
2005. And I assume that
some of the virtualization stuff
in 2008 will have WMI
or similar interfaces, but it's
still, it's still pretty obscure.
And it was considered pretty
advanced. And it did, we
had our daily, we had
our, our continuous builds so
that someone would check in,
which is an interesting thing
to point out to actually
talk to me about, it's
not just that we're scheduling
builds, like let's say I
something into subversion or into
my source control, cruise controls,
polling. Right. And then what
happens if I check in
immediately afterwards, are we seeing
builds on every single check-in
Not by default? So by
default cruise control.net will because
of the nature of it
pulling the version, your version
control repository on a periodic
basis, it may aggregate a
couple of check-ins together. If
those check-ins have come in
fairly close in sequence, a
big part of it depends
on the length of your
build process. So if you've
got a very long running
build process, then you're more
likely to get a bunch
of check-ins within that single
build. There are, there are
other tools. So sin, for
example, is relatively obscure, automated
integration server. It's built entirely
on top of subversion, it's
called sin sin sin. It
was designed to support a
model where the bill would
never, ever break. So each
developer would always check in
on a new branch and
the automated integration server would
take responsibility for merging those
branches into trunk. And that
would ensure that it was
only pulling in one change
set at a time. I
mean, what cruise control.net does
do is it tracks what
the last, at least in
the example of subversion tracks,
the last change set, and
then determines if what new
change sets have been added
in the interim since the
last build happened. I mean,
ideally you should be keeping
your builds to a sufficiently
small interval. They should run
sufficiently quickly that the likelihood
of there being multiple commits
included in a single build
is reduced substantially. But from
my experience, at least having
multiple commits in a single
checkin is generally not such
a big deal. I mean,
you're really only talking about
maybe two, maybe three commits
depending on the size of
the team. And it's often
pretty easy to determine which
commit was responsible for causing
a build breakage. So you
can determine who has to
deal with the aftermath. Yeah.
That idea that don't leave
the building until you know,
that the build has succeeded
became a really big part
of the culture. And there
were a couple of times
where folks myself included would
check something in on a
Friday afternoon and then take
off and not realize that
the build was going to
be broken and we'd end
up basically screwing everybody for
the weekend who wanted to
do any kind of work.
And that became a big
part of the culture. We
actually bought an ambient orb,
which was this kind of
a crystal ball with lights
that would light up based
on whether or not the
health of the build was
a good thing and put
up signs and lights in
prominent places so that people
would know that the build
was, was healthy. I think
the ambient orb is a
good example because what it
does is it takes audit.
It takes information out of
the system and makes it
accessible as part of the
environment that people actually work
in and interact in so
that you don't actually need
to be logged into a
system in order to see
what the status is of
the build. But I think
that it only takes a
certain distance. There's so much
more information that can be
leveraged rather than just whether
your orb is pulsating and
green, yellow, or red. So
for the agile 2008 conference,
that's going to be here
in Toronto in the start
of August, I'm doing a
session called continuous monitoring beyond
continuous integration. So what continuous
monitoring is about is recognizing
that the build is just
one potential source of information
about the health of a
project. And it's something that
we've invested a lot of
time and effort into it,
certainly for projects that have
an automated integration server up
and going, it is the
heart and lifeblood of that
project, but it only provides
a subset of the possible
amount of information about the
health of a project. I
mean, your build might be
100% green and passing all
the time, but that may
be covering up a host
of other problems that you
have. So there's an there's
many different sources of information
about the health of a
project. And part of what
continuous monitoring is about is
about pulling that information together
and making it accessible in
the same way that that
feedback was that was coming
in from your ambient or
so, as I said before,
the ambient orb is good,
but limited. Really what you
want is the flexibility of
something like a wall mounted
display in order to be
able to provide you with
information about all of these
other facets on your project.
So this for me came
as a realization from the
last couple of projects where
I've been on, where we
have used a relatively low
spec computer that we've set
up in the corner with
a flat screen monitor that
we've been able to Mount
prominently. And we have aggregated
information from the web dashboard
for a number of different
projects onto a single screen.
And that provided the team
with an alternative to the
ambient, or because you can
see more information, not just
whether the bill was passing
your failing, but what it
was currently doing, what the
last successful label was or
what label it was currently
building, et cetera. So there's
just a ton more flexibility.
And what we did from
then was we started to
plug into other sources of
information on our project. So
how many open bugs do
we have in JIRA? What
JIRA being your bug tracking
system? Exactly the issue tracking
system that we, that we
were using on that project
And all of this has
meant to provide a dashboard
that indicates the health of
the park. How are we
doing? Should we panic? It's
to give a comprehensive understanding
of holistic understanding of the
status of the project? Okay.
So I mean, health is
yeah. One description of health,
I guess I'm using the
term health as kind of
an aggregate for all of
the different bits of information
that let us know whether
action should be taken. Exactly.
And if you're not taking
a look at those things,
if those things aren't presented
in a way that's easily
accessible to people, if you,
in other words, have to
go and log into JIRA
and see what the number
of open issues are, then
people are not going to
be as willing to act
on that as if it
was something that was readily
visible within their workspace. So
you're saying that if the
information that they need, isn't
effortless, if there's any barrier
to entry at all, to
get that information that they
might need to make a
particular decision, then they might
never do it Exactly. And
the way to make it
effortless is to make it
ambient, to make it so
that people can absorb that
information passively without actually having
to do something it's part
of their work environment. Their
work environment is projecting information
at them so that when
the status changes of something
that needs to grab their
attention, then it is readily
visible for members of the
team. So going beyond the,
the juror example, number of
open issues, there were other
things like we were using
an operations database, which is
a topic that I talked
about today at the conference
and the operations database held
information about the, the performance
of the system. So what
were the slowest running operations?
We were able to take
that information and present that,
or responding within a dash.
This is sort of an
integration toast, so it's not
pretty gathering. So, okay. This,
the reason I ask is
there's also a larger topic.
It's a fantastic topic because
one of the things that
was happening with us is
we kept trying to provide
information to people and we
would push out these reports
and the email that we
sent out after each bill
got longer and longer and
longer to the point where
people just ignored them, people
would make rules to take
the build servers, email report,
and just put it directly
in the trash. Cause we,
we made a rule company,
Y that you, you must
receive the bill mail, but
that of course doesn't mean
that they have to read
it. Right? So if something
shows up in your inbox,
it's still very easy to
ignore it. Number one, number
two, things transmitted by email
are naturally on a slower
feedback cycle. So there's a
larger disconnect between the point
in time when something changes.
So whatever that thing was
that you're assessing, let's say
code coverage, flip from being
acceptable to not acceptable. And
the third thing is that
you are reading an individually,
there is no collective responsibility
associated with that email. It
was addressed to you. It's
not clear who should take
responsibility for something. Whereas if
it's up and it's written
on the wall that projected
on the wall on a
screen, it's very clear that
this is something that the
team as a whole has
to deal with because anybody
else that comes in and
comes into that environment, they
can see that this information
is prominently displayed and they
can see that there's a
problem here. So the team
has got an incentive to
ensure that they're correcting and
dealing with it as soon
as possible. And, and starting
to kind of, it starts
to make sense to me
full circle, because coming at
it from your point of
view, as an agile coach,
all of this information is
nothing without an appropriate process
wrapped around it. And one
of the fundamental things about
agile that's so important, everyone
is the notion of collective
ownership and collective ownership is
such an anathema to people
who have previously had ownership
over a sub system that
they designed during the big
design upfront and their waterfall
process. But having something like
one of the things that's
important about collective ownership, I
think is co-location, I've always
felt that it's important to
take everyone and put them
in a bullpen. And that
would be where you would
put this giant screen That's
right. But not necessarily because
of the fact that the
information is accessible online. So
you can easily take one
of these monitors or dashboards
and be able to display
remotely. So within ThoughtWorks, one
of the things that I
did a lot of work
on was different distributed projects.
I spent a year and
a half working in India,
six months working in China
on different projects that had
a, an offshore and onshore
component to them. And so
you can take one of
these dashboards and install it
at a client site or
install it on sites for
both teams. And all of
a sudden, they're both looking
at the same set of
information, The screen for them,
get a big screen and
put it up there for
them. No. So this is,
this is a new topic,
and this is something that
I think we're going to
see a lot of development
around in the, in the
next year or so. So
it's something that I think
organizations are only starting to
realize the value of. And
there's a number of things
that make it a little
bit difficult to attain right
now. One is that it
is, it requires the intersection
between both software and hardware.
So it's not simply about
having a software tool that
aggregates this information together, but
it's also having a suitable
display that you can install
in an environment and have
that working in a way
that is easily accessible to
a team. So for example,
if, if you're, if you're
just looking at a flat
screen monitor and a machine
it's often difficult to find
space within a corporate environment
in order to play something
like that. Well, certainly it's
difficult to keep that machine
log in all the time.
And, you know, who's the
user. One of the big
issues we have with our
cruise control servers, one of
the biggest issues was who's
this running as this is
an identity and this identity
has to have access to
network shares, and it's going
to run automatic. So that
there's going to be some
machine logged in all the
time, whether it's logging into
the desktop or whether the
service has the ability to
interact with the desktop. That
was pretty fundamentally a big
deal. Computers are typically in
a corporate environment assigned to
a human being. So now
we're going to have one
that's going to sit there
in the corner and show
it screen and no screen
saver all the time. Exactly.
And that becomes, it becomes
hard to justify the value
of something like that. Like
within most corporate it shops,
inventory is pretty carefully managed.
And so if they see
a machine that's sitting idle,
even for a moment, then
it will be reallocated elsewhere.
So really what you need
is some sort of hardware
that has fit the purpose.
And what I've been looking
at recently is ways in
which you can have this
wall mountable flat screen monitor
displays with an integrated hardware
components. So some sort of
a mountable small computer and
provide that with network access,
whether it be wireless or
wired, ideally both. And that
is your ambient display device.
So then it's a device
that's fit for purpose. There's
no question about it being
allocated elsewhere. It doesn't need
to be high spec because
it's really all it's doing
is pulling and pulling in
information from different sources within
the enterprise. Just run a
browser in kiosk mode. Exactly.
And have the whole thing,
be Ajax calls. Let me
take just a very brief
moment and we'll thank our
sponsors. We'll come back. We'll
hear more about continuous monitoring.
Hi, it's Scott Hanselman here.
Hope you're enjoying the show
so far. I'm coming at
you from another place in
time. Sorry to interrupt the
show, but I want to
let you know that putting
together a podcast like this
every week, isn't free. The
folks that pay the bandwidth
bill is Tellerik they make
the show possible and they
also make some pretty cool
products like Telerik site affinity.
It's a development platform for
constructing websites, community portals, and
Internet's built all on asp.net
to, Oh, so you're using
the various well-known goodies like
master pages and membership services,
data model provider, things that
you already know. It's pretty
flexible. You've got a very
robust core that you can
customize. You can plug in
anything that you want from
complex applications, for a CRM,
or just a little widget
that displays the weather. If
you're not big into the
code thing, that's cool to
get a full set of
features out of the box,
like workflow multi-lingual sites, content,
versioning that can all be
added without code. There's also
a whole bunch of pluggable
modules and components for news
blogs, forums, polls lists. This
is all stuff that you
can do without code. And
it's pretty good looking product
as well. You've got a
nice web 2.0 administrative interface
that lets you as well
as your boss. Who's not
technical and be really productive.
So check out site finity.com
and we'll get you right
back to the show. Thanks
a lot. So you were
talking about putting together a
hardware. Was it a platform
or would this be a
PC that we have hanging
on the wall or this
be something embedded? So I've
been looking at a couple
of different options. One of
the things I've been looking
at recently are these things
called gum sticks, which are
mini computers, about the size
of a pack of gum
that provide a relatively low
spec computing power they're quite
inexpensive to acquire, and they
could be directly attached a
fixed to one of these
flat screen mountable monitors. And
they run. I mean, you
can, you can install what
you want. When you say
a stick of gum. Are
you talking about like, like
juicy fruit, like an actual
stamp gum? Exactly. Like a
USB key size computer. Exactly.
That's creepy. Yeah. So there's
a, the companies in Vancouver,
the manufacturers them, but there's
other, there's other alternatives for
display. Another thing that we've
been looking at, and this
is in conjunction with one
of my colleagues is rather
than using a wall mountable
monitor, you can use electronic
photo albums. So picture frames.
Yeah, exactly. They're chumby that
are designed to display your
photos and some of the
newer ones provide wireless access.
So what you can do
is you can push images
to them so you could
push it to flicker for
all they care. Sure. You
can push it, you can
push it to whatever you
can push it to whatever
you want Flicker as continuous
integration service bus. But I,
I'm not sure if by
flick, like if you're thinking
about the same thing as
I am, because I don't
know some of the sites
that you're, What I'm saying
is that you can go
to the local Costco or
the warehouse and buy for
a hundred dollars, a 10
inch digital picture frame that's
right. And you point it
to your flicker username and
it will start showing a
slideshow instantly from the flicker
service on Yahoo. Exactly. And
it'll pull it from, or
from any arbitrary RSS feed
and you can say to
randomize it, or you can
get a, I think it's
called a chumby and a
chumby is a little four-inch
portable. It looks like a
little fancy alarm clock. It's
an open Linux system and
you buy them for $120
and they sit on your
desk and you can point
them to an arbitrary RSS
feed. And so that's exactly
what I'm talking about. You
put, you're basically saying using
existing ambient information devices from
any one of the many
different sources, some of which
are bringing an open platform,
some are not. And using
techniques like whether it be
flicker as platform RSS or
some custom code that you
would right. Exactly. And the
goal is to keep it
very low cost. So the
digital photo frame is perfect
because it is relatively inexpensive.
It's something that most it
shops wouldn't bat an eye
at going out and just
acquiring. And as long as
that 42 inch plasma, as
long as the software is
there to back it up.
So it's very simple to
plugging in and installed. You've
got a display of what
your dashboard is up and
going then that provides the
hardware end of things. So
that that's, that, that's where
I see that there is
really an opportunity here because
it is this intersection between
both the hardware requirement of
being able to display this
information ambiently and the software
side of things, which integrates
and aggregates this information from
all the different information sources
on a project. Right. I
think that the idea of
having it not be a
PC that someone could log
into and allowing someone to
lock it down simply by
Mac address and saying, we
will give you access to
this XML end point you
can do gets to this
port 80 is about as
locked down as one could
ever hope for an appliance
within a corporation to be.
Yeah. The key of course
is getting the people to
understand that it's, it's more
than just the device, it's
about the information that the
device provides and how to
act on that. Right. And
how do you act on
that? And then you're trying
to using this to sell
agile, basically, as you said,
I liked the way you
phrased it before that continuous
integration servers were the, what
did you say? The thin
edge of the wedge that's
right. It's you, you're using
that to kind of crowbar
your way into an because
who could possibly complain about
a continuous, Right. Exactly. And
then once you've got a
continuous build, well, what else
can I do with it?
Oh, well idea. If I
can increase his values by
adding some tests or adding
in some static code analysis
or whatever, I'm continually impressed
when I visit companies and
they have that the big
glass wall that lets you
see the data center that
they run there rather than
having the data center buried
somewhere. They like at the
camp, I used to work@acompanycalledeighthundred.com
and they put the data
center in the center of
the warehouse. And it was
like in the middle of
this giant glass tube. And
you could look in there
and see the flat screens
that showed the health of
the system. They displayed their
perf stats with pride. You
know, if they could make
an electronic t-shirt that would
show the number of visitors
that was the kind of
culture it had. And this
was 10 Years ago. And
that's also the sort of
information that I'm talking about
aggregating through continuous monitoring. And
that that's was partially the
topic of the session that
I did today about the
operations database is starting to
collect that information that is
available within an operations environment
and make it more accessible
within the organization as a
whole, certainly within the development
side of the it organization,
because the development side is
actually capable of acting on
it. So from my experience
within many organizations, things like
uptime is not something that
developers generally know about. Whereas
if this information was being
displayed continuously as part of
a work environment, and it
would be much more accessible
to developers would be much
more real. And one of
the challenges that I've run
into within many organizations is
that there's this division between
development and operations and they
tend to be in conflict
because they're measured in accordance
with different goals. Development is
assessed on the basis of
being able to release fully
featured software into production. On
time. Operations is measured on
the basis of production systems,
stability and uptime, but the
two are fundamentally in conflict
because there's nothing that is
more destabilizing to a production
environment than to accept a
new release. So from the
operations perspective, if you're not
being measured on the basis
of new functionality coming into
your environment, then what are
you going to do? You're
going to erect barriers and
say, okay, there has to
be this sort of a
rigid change management process associated
with every new release that
we accept into production. And
conversely from the development side
of things, if the system
is failing within production, you
may not know about it.
You may not need to
know about it. There's often
forces within the organization that
would keep you from knowing
about that because it would
be distracting from focusing on
whatever the new set of
features are that you're currently
working on. That's interesting that
it seems that some developers
have a sense of ownership
over the package that they
deliver, but not the actual
thing that's in production. And
there seems to be a
culture of information hiding in
this industry. I mean, it
seems that in the manufacturing
industry, they, they proudly show
signs that say 400 days
since our last accident, which
is their equivalent of uptime,
or we're currently making a
car every 12 seconds. But
I usually don't see signs
up and flat screen monitors
up outside of data centers
that are touting. You know,
we were at we're at
five nines right now. It
seems like that should be
broadcasted to the world. I'm
always impressed when I enter
an organization and not only
have they got signs up
near the, the data center,
but in the lobby, you
know, you want to impress
me, put a 42 inch
flat screen with a perf
mod and some dashboard up
in the lobby of your
building. That's the goal that's
really powerful. What is the
culture that's preventing people to
do that? Well, first off,
I'm really glad that you
mentioned the manufacturing example because
that's partially where the inspiration
for this came from. So
I've been reading a lot
recently about lean manufacturing and
looking for opportunities to apply
ideas from lean into the
software development. Just to be
clear Are folks that are,
are listening that lean doesn't
just mean necessarily the concept
of lean, but this is
a practice. This is the
name of something That's right.
And so it is a
set of ideas that have
helped revolutionize the manufacturing idea
and it is embodied within
the Toyota company. So it
is where many of the
lean ideas first came about.
And so much of the
lean terminology is, is from,
is in Japanese. So there's
a lean concept called an
end in board. And an
end in board is exactly
what I've just been describing.
That's a N D O
N and within Toyota's manufacturing
plants, there is a prominent
display within the assembly area
where every production worker can
see what the status is
of the line. And so
that information is visible. It
is updated continuously and it's
what drives their process. It
helps them ensure that they're
practicing tech time, that they
are meeting the necessary quality
standards that they're meeting the
necessary levels of production that
are required in order to
sustain their lean operation. And
it's exactly the same idea
within software development is to
take and create and in
boards for software teams, that's,
that's the central idea behind
continuous monitoring. And this was
an idea that you're just
kind of working on right
now. This isn't a, I
can't rush out and buy
one of these, but I
can start. How do I
get involved in the conversation?
I think that people who
are listening to this are
going to want to find
where's the Google group, where's
the website, where's the blog.
How do I get more
information about continuous monitoring? What
I can do to make
this happen at my company
today? So at this point
in time, it's pretty much
under the radar. The easiest
thing is to contact me
directly@owenowenatxtechdotcomexortch.com and alternately come to
agile 2008, the start of
August, I'm going to be
doing a three hour tutorial
on this topic and we'll
hopefully have more than just
vaporware to present at least
from the software side and
provide some demos of integration
with hardware. The things that
I've done on projects in
the past have been more
or less cobbled together. And
so this is an attempt
to extend beyond that and
actually explore the interaction between
the software and the hardware
and see where these two
things fit together. Very cool.
Well, thanks so much for
sitting down with me today.
I really appreciate you taking
the time. Yeah, no problem,
Scott. All right. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.